docs/challenges/engine-control.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 5 - Engine Control System
parent: Challenges
nav_order: 5
---

# Engine Control System Challenge
_To keep the flight smooth and steady, your hands must be sure and ready._  
_Guide the engine's roar and hum, until the perfect balance has come._

## Mission Briefing
The engine of the FrostByte Flyer has been disrupted, and its control system is out of balance. Your objective is to stabilize and regain control of the engine using a DC motor and an analog joystick. This task simulates the fine-tuning needed to keep the sleigh's engine running smoothly under harsh Arctic conditions.

## The Puzzle
The engine's throttle control is unresponsive, and the stabilization system is offline. You find a DC motor connected to the engine system and an analog joystick that was part of the original control mechanism.

## Instructions
1. Connect the DC motor and the analog joystick to your Arduino board.
2. Program the Arduino to use the joystick for controlling the speed and direction of the DC motor.
3. Test the setup to ensure responsive and stable control of the motor, representing the engine's throttle.
4. Adjust the controls to achieve a steady and controlled motor movement, signifying a stable engine.

## Resources
- [DC Motor with Arduino Tutorial](../../assets/files/2.23 DC Motors/2.23 DC Motors.pdf)
- [DC Motor Sample Code](../../assets/files/2.23 DC Motors/DC_Motor/DC_Motor.ino)
- [Analog Joystick with Arduino Tutorial](../../assets/files/2.12 Analog Joystick Module/2.12 Analog Joystick Module.pdf)
- [Anolog Joystick Sample Code](../../assets/files/2.12 Analog Joystick Module/Analog_Joystick/Analog_Joystick.ino)

[Back to Challenges Overview](/docs/challenges/)

Commit message:

added power gauge requirements to later challenges

docs/challenges/engine-control.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: 5 - Engine Control System
parent: Challenges
nav_order: 5
---

# Engine Control System Challenge
_To keep the flight smooth and steady, your hands must be sure and ready._  
_Guide the engine's roar and hum, until the perfect balance has come._

## Mission Briefing
The engine of the FrostByte Flyer has been disrupted, and its control system is out of balance. Your objective is to stabilize and regain control of the engine using a DC motor and an analog joystick. This task simulates the fine-tuning needed to keep the sleigh's engine running smoothly under harsh Arctic conditions.

## The Puzzle
The engine's throttle control is unresponsive, and the stabilization system is offline. You find a DC motor connected to the engine system and an analog joystick that was part of the original control mechanism.

## Instructions
1. Connect the DC motor and the analog joystick to your Arduino board.
2. Program the Arduino to use the joystick for controlling the speed and direction of the DC motor.
3. Test the setup to ensure responsive and stable control of the motor, representing the engine's throttle.
4. Wire up the dynamic gauge to indicate engine power levels.

## Resources
- [DC Motor with Arduino Tutorial](../../assets/files/2.23 DC Motors/2.23 DC Motors.pdf)
- [DC Motor Sample Code](../../assets/files/2.23 DC Motors/DC_Motor/DC_Motor.ino)
- [Analog Joystick with Arduino Tutorial](../../assets/files/2.12 Analog Joystick Module/2.12 Analog Joystick Module.pdf)
- [Anolog Joystick Sample Code](../../assets/files/2.12 Analog Joystick Module/Analog_Joystick/Analog_Joystick.ino)

[Back to Challenges Overview](/docs/challenges/)
